that's the interesting thing about
Authority issues on a personal level
we're handing our power over one way or
another whether I'm handing like I
handed my power over by rebelling
against or somebody's handing a power
over by trying to get approval either
way we're not paying attention to our
choices and if we really deal with it
and treat them like a human then we're
empowered but we have to take
responsibility for the
relationship hi Joe hey it's good to see
you Alexa good to see you too uh So
today we're going to talk about
Authority
[Music]
issues
yeah yeah that's a personal favorite of
mine I I I have had a well uh seasoned
bouquet of authority issues in my
lifetime well you know what me
too I hadn't noticed
Alexa right
so what do we mean by Authority
issues Authority issues basically means
that you are treating authorities not
like human beings that and so in a weird
way I mean almost everybody has
Authority issues but that's the main
thing that that's what I would call the
authority issue it's somehow or another
that you either think that the authority
is trying to oppress you or the
authority is somebody that you're trying
to please or or the authority somehow
can validate you or you're just not
treating them like a normal human being
the way you would treat a friend or
somebody on the side of the road that
you have some level of projection onto
them which is distorting your
relationship with them and distorting
the way that you are in the world
distorting what you can
actually like get in the world too right
so when I was a kid the main Authority
in my life obviously was my dad and that
relationship was not functional at all
so I went through life not trusting any
Authority there was like so and
therefore like the idea of having
mentorship I couldn't even conceive of
it until I was well until my 30s that
somebody would Mentor me so so I lost
that like with teachers I just didn't
trust any teacher so I I could read the
book but I wouldn't actually go and hang
out with any kind of spiritual teacher
because I couldn't trust them they were
there was something wrong with all of
them um and so or teachers that I had in
college I was like always looking for
how they were wrong so I wasn't really
also learning from them and so what I
got in my life was deeply affected by
the fact that I didn't trust Authority
and I had that kind of authority issue I
think simultaneously I saw other people
who were like oh I need to please the
authority and so they didn't get to like
think for themselves they didn't get to
like get in touch with their own wants
and
desires they were like leading their
life not from their truth but from what
they assume the authority wanted from
them so all of that is what I would call
the an authority issue any any side of
that would be an authority issue and it
really creates some crazy Dynamics for
the person who is apparently in in
Authority as well like there's a whole
bunch of stuff it does on that side
which is very interesting to
me well yeah let's talk about that what
does that you know like what is what do
Authority issues create for the
authority so one of the things I noticed
is like in a company or in a cult or
like with rock stars any of those kinds
of situations what happens is that
people treat the authority differently
not as a human and so it's a lot easier
for the authority to stop acting like a
human and so so you know there's things
that if you walk around your world and
you're let's in charge of 2,000 people
in a company let's just say and
everybody's worried what you think and
everybody is trying to please
you it's often very hard for the
authority figure to actually feel that
to actually allow themselves to go oh
wow everybody here is trying to please
me as as a matter of fact the majority
of people who are running a company of
2,000 people often feel alone in it feel
like they they don't have anybody who
wants to help them you know like so it's
this strange mechanism but at the same
time they're being treated in this very
specific
way and so they start losing touch with
reality people don't give them bad news
people don't give them real feedback
everybody's trying to please them and so
they they don't actually feel deeply
connected which is what makes them feel
alone in it right so so there's that
aspect that happens the other aspect is
as for some for some
authorities people what it feels like is
that people want you to make their
decisions for them right because oh like
do you like that does that work is that
okay sir is like ma'am is like does that
and so you start making decisions and
telling people they're right and wrong
and that makes actually oddly makes
people feel safe like oh okay because
this person says it's right or wrong
then I know I've done it right or wrong
because if that person's gone then we
have to actually live with the reality
that nobody knows what the [__] going
on really like there's some people who
are better guessers at it but like
nobody nobody was like oh I know how to
build a spaceship company I know how to
build it like nobody knows how to do
this stuff that's being done in the
world right anything new anything
Innovative and so so we' either have to
deal with the fact that nobody actually
knows or we have to hand our power over
to somebody and when you hand the power
over to somebody it distorts their
reality right oh my God all like
thousands of people need me to decide
it's like it becomes really easy to go
oh yeah like people shouldn't be making
their own decisions or I'm special or
like and it also makes you feel like
what I the other thing that happens what
I notice is that people get very selfish
in those positions because there's not a
lot of themselves that they can get
anywhere else they're walking through
the company and and there's like you
walk through a company of 2,000 people
if you're just an employee and it's like
oh hey hey what's going on they walk
through a company of 2,000 people and
it's like he's there oh my
gosh oh my god did I dress it am I
straight enough whatever whatever the
crap is going on in all these people's
minds because there's all this
projection on this person so try to act
normal after living with that for two or
three years with people screaming every
time you get on stage with people you
know throwing themselves at you thinking
that you're going to make their dreams
come true whatever it is and so it
really distorts it really distorts and
then that's one side the other side is
that then people are attacking you for
no reason whatsoever because you're the
authority people like me [__] you you
don't don't tell me what to do D and
then it's like but so you're either
walking around and people are trying to
kiss your ass or people are attacking
you for no reason which really is
creates quite a defensive mechanism in a
human being and start you start thinking
you're above and start thinking the
people actually need leadership and that
people are dumb asses you're attacking
me for no reason you don't even know who
I am it's it's really quite
a it's quite a dynamic and and the thing
that's really interesting to me about it
is that usually what people do is they
blame the authority
figure right our compan our our
companies crap because the CEO our
company our country is crap because of
the president that country is crap
because of the president like the that
that's usually that's the face that's
who's going to get blamed that's
who's but what I've noticed is that you
know the the culture affects this the
CEO as much as the CEO affects the
culture it is an actual dance there's
that the authority in the culture they
have a dance
together and whether you're looking at
chimpanzee culture
or or like indigenous tribe culture like
those cultures they're very Ware of that
like oh like oh you have a job and if we
don't like it like you're not going to
hold your job for very long like you see
that in chimpanzee culture in Monkey
culture that like if
the head male chimpanzee doesn't treat
everybody with respect they get kicked
out a lot quicker than the ones who
treat them all with respect if they're
like very dominant they don't last as
long and so there's this kind of
understanding that we're that we're
responsible
you know that like I I feel like most as
an example most people in the United
States right now they feel like they're
put upon by the choices for president or
by the president they're not like oh
we're choosing this we're choosing
this if if if if the culture was like no
you don't get this this no this we're
not going to choose between a delusional
and A demented President right as an
example then it wouldn't be the cas case
we're accepting this and and people
don't like taking that
responsibility and so that that's that's
the interesting thing about Authority
issues all the way around is that it's
it it on a personal level
we're we're handing our power over one
way or another whether I'm handing like
I handed my power over by rebelling
against or somebody's handing a power
over by trying to get approval either
way we're not paying attention to our
choices
and if we really deal with it and treat
them like a human then we're empowered
but we have to take responsibility for
the
relationship yeah yeah that makes a lot
of sense
and
also I'm just comparing it to my own
sort of authority issues yeah and I
think I have a thing where let's see how
do I explain that it's kind of like if
somebody has Authority and they are not
feeling their emotions so if they have
fear yeah which you can see even in a
really small example like a teacher at
the front of a class or something like
that and they're holding a bunch of fear
and sort of trying to like be above
Their Fear
I can't stand it
right right
totally
um which it's almost not that I'm not
treating them as a human I think it's
almost more like
hey man you're just a guy like you're
not you're not
some like Authority on high you're just
a guy you think you know what you're
talking about but I don't think you know
what you're talking about I think you're
just some guy it's almost Me Knocking
them down to human
level yeah so the interesting thing
about that is let's say the person next
to you in the class was
scared would you turn over to them and
say you're just a guy
probably not right so that's the that's
the unique spin that happens but I love
what you're saying right because that's
that's very much what I did I very much
was like I I would maybe I would even
try to knock them lower than me right
like oh see you're a spiritual teacher
that needs your face on a book you don't
[__] get it I mean I remember I had
literally had that thought process
around Adia Shante who ended up being
one of the more important figures in my
life oh dude like look at you you need
your face on a book like oh you need
like I just whatever I did whatever was
required to make sure that I was better
than the authority so I didn't have to
feel my own longing for their approval
or my own hurt for their disapproval
or whatever the emotions were underneath
yeah yeah of course they're a person and
of course they're scared we're but you
know all yes that's the thing it's like
right yeah when I look at it from
another angle it's true that I know a
number of like Founders and CEOs who
have that kind of fear that you're
describing um and I've I've even heard
people say things like oh I I just don't
feel like I can give anyone advice
anymore because people take my advice
way too seriously they changed their
lives around it so I have to I have to
be cold like I have to to be distant
from folks yeah there's there's some
studies that really show that people who
have been in positions of power for an
extended period of Time start losing
empathy I don't think that's Universal
but statistically
true which is really a heavy cost for
people but there is there's this weird
consequence right so like I hang out
with like a billionaire and everybody
like a famous one and everybody's coming
to them to make their dreams come
true the driver the the person open the
door for them like everybody's looking
at them like oh you can make me
happy Jesus like imagine walking around
like
that yeah I don't want to feel that it's
really yeah it's really
heavy yeah
right I heard this comedian talking
about it and it's like
he's talking about he's quite a famous
comedian he said it's like walking
around um with uh amn not Amnesia uh he
said it he said being famous is like
walking around with
Alzheimer's everybody's very sweet and
they know you but you know
nobody like you're in a small village
with Alzheimer's and everybody's like oh
hi you're like I have no idea who you
are oh oh yeah that's
rough yeah right all these people
relating to some character that you that
they think you
are yeah right and then you put that
that authority figure that you talked
about who was saying like oh I'm I'm
scared like you're like you're scared I
see you're scared and you're just a
normal person they're scared because
they's somebody in the audience who like
they're they're scared because they're
like I can't show that I'm scared scared
because I'm the authority and then no
nobody will trust me and there's some
truth to that there's some right the
weird thing is is that we do like humans
in general do like their leaders to be
secure and confident and not scared and
know what they're doing
and have like have a certain amount of
assurity or narcissism that's like yeah
I got this even though they don't
because none of us do yeah uh yeah but
there's like a kind of a fine line to
walk there because like I'm just
comparing this to a recent experience of
um attending a talk by a founder and
they um they were they were scared yeah
my kryptonite and they kept responding
to really critical uh I don't want to
say like really critical questions but
questions about their product and their
approach yeah with defense yeah and the
more that they would defend and try to
uphold that idea that they were power
and they were cool yes exactly I also
was just having a hard time sitting
there like I don't enjoy watching this
happen it's really it's a lot for me to
sit with I wish I weren't here right now
it's cool product and everything but
this leadership style isn't working for
me and I know that it's because they're
trying to maintain an appearance of
having it all together yeah yeah
absolutely that right so it is just very
it's a very for the for the authority
figure it's this very weird
oh to know how because there is a very
specific way in which like if that
authority figure would have said as an
example oh wow that's some really cool
criticism can you tell me more like how
would you improve the product what do
you see here like you know then they
would be like very confident and very
open and everybody would be like oh
that's great but if that authority
figure went oh [__] my product [__]
sucks D do you know like I put [__]
years of my time into this and then you
don't even like it you know like or
whatever a thousand other fear
responses they like they would have lost
the room even further right and that one
sounded like collapse to me right
collapse or what freeze or yeah like
they went a little bit to bully it
sounds like you know in the fear
triangle but if they would have done any
fear response
that would have that would have created
this other thing so that's why they're
like oh I'm going to just manage my fear
and compartmentalize my fear which is
making it worse as compared
to you know using their fear as a as
a as a mechanism to see what they can
learn and how they can grow the the
interesting thing to me is that so I you
know we run in the master class we run
this executive cohort one of the things
I do in the executive cohort is that I
have people
visualize the reality of being an
authority
figure you walk into a room and
everybody notices you're
there there's a couple people you can
see it in their face they like [__] you
just because you're the authority figure
and there's a couple people who are like
oo are they looking at me do they notice
me like and I like literally walk
through and and have them feel all the
emotions that you don't allow yourself
to feel as an authority figure because
it's really quite overwhelming
of like oh people are saying specific
things to you to make you feel good or
to kiss your ass or to show value to you
everybody wants to be of value to you
everybody wants to be seen like what is
that like people aren't showing you
their full selves
and there's people rebelling against you
and like feeling all this
stuff and it's amazing the reaction and
it's amazing what happens when you do
that as an authority figure like how you
walk into a company differently when you
actually can see the reality on the
ground and allow yourself to feel it
rather than try to avoid
it and so yeah there's a lot of emotions
to be dealt with on that side of the
coin but it's all happening because of
authority issues on the other side of
the
coin right so it's it is this dance that
we're doing together the authority
figure and the and the group like in a
weird way the authority figure is
channeling
like the way the group treats them yeah
I definitely see truth in that yeah and
and vice versa that the that the
authority of spit at the top of the The
Authority when they spit it's a
waterfall at the bottom is something
that I say all the time to
CEOs and what do you mean by that that's
like a little bit of a criticism of a
CEO can create like million dooll
changes at the bottom of the company
like you
know if they just get a like so as an
example so I went into one of the top
biggest five companies in the world to
go and do a a cultural
shift and I went through three levels
of of
management all of them trying to
manage the response of the person at the
top right so the first person's managing
me like for the second person who
manages me and they're not really
worried about my results they like in
their mind they're saying okay this is
what I think that the manager the CEO or
whoever needs to be happy so make sure
you do
that and and I like I don't do that
anymore now I will not work through the
because it it distorts it so much I'll
only work with the leader I won't work
with the everything in between I just
refuse to do that because it gets so
distorted there's so much time spent
like I was working with some folks and
they told me literally they spent
$100,000 on a video for the CEO it was
$100,000 that was spent on a single
video just to show the CEO something so
that the CEO would approve the budget
there was
$100,000 spent instead of like hey
here's the situation here's the reality
on the ground this is what we're
wrestling with this is what like what do
you think we should do how do we move
forward or this is how we think we
should move forward no it was
like $100,000 polish piece to get what
you
want right like so that that that's the
spit at the top is this waterfall at the
bottom the reflect the the the company
the organization is a in some degree a
reflection of the leader and the leader
is in some degree of reflection of the
organization
yeah yeah the other thing it sounds like
is almost being said not not quite
um is like
the um that Dynamic that you're talking
about um wouldn't necessarily work on
the leader if they were able to stay
really in themselves in their
vulnerability and their
curiosity so for instance if uh you know
if this founder that I was listening to
their talk the other day hadn't had
something to
defend if they were truly open to the
criticism being something interesting
like an opportunity for them to change
their product even though yes they've
probably been working on it for the last
four years of their life yeah if it were
an opportunity or at least something
that they would like to see before it
kind of hits them in the market yeah you
know that would been easier for my
system
yeah yes Absolut yeah so absolutely like
I really encourage like so I walk up
into our office for instance and I
really encourage people to make fun of
me I make fun of myself uh like there's
a lot of laughing at Joe that happens in
the office we laugh at each other too
don't get me wrong but the this really
important for me culturally for people
to
see me as
human right and so
and so I make I do lots of things to
make sure that that stays the case right
where people don't look at me and think
that they have to please me you know
like one of the things that we do in our
company that I mean that you know about
is that at the end of every
email people have to give somebody else
an
action so if you write to me or you know
a part-time assistant writes to me on an
email it's not an email but in our
internal communication thing and they
write to me they have to give me an
action to take at the end of that they
have to assign me they have to delegate
to
me right and so that's part of like what
we're doing to say Oh wait we're all a
team here I have a particular role you
have a particular role but anybody gets
to assign anybody a task and anybody
gets to say no and anybody gets to say
but but it's so important that oh to
realize that relationship is going both
ways there's a whole bunch of things
that we do to to do that but I think I
leared it actually through teaching more
than I leared it through like running
the
company which is that if I ever defended
when somebody attacked me if I ever
defended it always went South like it
just only went South so especially in
the role of like of of this kind of
teaching right so
now you know I'm far more likely to say
some you know I remember somebody saying
to me the other day like you make [__]
up you you just made this up I'm like
absolutely I I cannot prove any of this
to be true like absolutely test it for
yourself like figure it out for yourself
and I'm not also going to say that like
making it up is bad I mean Jeff Bezos
made up Amazon yeah but like making [__]
up is how humans create cool [__] but
yes I like yeah made stuff up I'm making
this up right
now and so and that's the part that like
when I'll say it there's something that
people like about that energetically
they're like oh yeah cool like he no
defense but then there's something else
in there that people go wait wait I want
some sort of solidity I want some sort
of like ground that tells me that
there's a right and a wrong that there's
something I can trust and if you stop
believing in the authority as anything
besides just another human being who's
got one job to do then the other thing
you have to give up
is the idea that there's like some
ground that you get to stand on on right
or wrong good or bad well performed or
not well performed that that all goes
away without an
authority and that's what I see I see a
lot of folks particularly people
transitioning
from like sea level to becoming their
own becoming an entrepreneur of their
own that's the biggest hurdle they have
to come up is like oh I don't get that
leader anymore to follow everybody's
following me
I don't get that P like idea that they
know what the [__] they're doing
anymore and and it's a big hurdle for a
lot of people to take absolutely yeah y
it seems like a reflection of a personal
growth Journey yeah it very much
is it very much is and and there's
nothing wrong to say oh what the place I
love in life is to be of service to
somebody you know in that that role I
don't think there's anything wrong with
that I think it's it's actually quite a
free lovely thing and the best way to do
that is to also see that they don't know
what the [__] they're talking about
either like that their approval doesn't
mean anything you know it's just we're
just two human beings we like each
other's approval and I think that's the
other thing that people don't really see
is that the authority figure also wants
the approval of the people who
are who are working with them yeah and
it's very hard for people to seeing as
like if you're in a meeting and
somebody's like hey that's great work
that's fantast you did a great job there
that's the authority figure in the
room because no one's really doing that
for the authority
figure and so it's interesting like when
I'm working with Executives who are like
oh H how do I like when the power
struggle structure is off between them
and a peer and it's like one of the
things I'll say to them is hey just
compliment people their work it makes
you the authority in the
room that's powerful it's
crazy yes so it's and I really really
felt it when you said that even when
I've been in Authority roles work on big
projects something yeah like it's true
nobody tells me I did a good job right
it it hurts to see that yeah I have this
email right now to one of the CEOs I
work with
and um and it's basically just an email
to say hey just so you know it's
possible that you can feel like when you
walk into the to office you can feel
like you have a team of people around
you who want to support you and you want
to support them and you feel held by
them and they feel held by you like I
just want you to know that's possible it
doesn't have to be you are at it all
alone and you have to manage everybody
and you have to move everybody and you
have to again you're all alone in it
it's really possible for you as an
authority as the authority in the
company to walk in and just see that
they like everybody wants you to succeed
they want you to win and they're there
to help you and that you are there to
help them win and like there's that
feeling of actual teamwork in it and
what's amazing to me is there's very few
CEOs who actually get that there's very
few CEOs who feel like oh I'm part of a
team that loves being a team that loves
working together
and that supports each other it's really
really really
rare the team might have it but the CEO
doesn't doesn't feel like they're part
of that
[Music]
team which is
crazy
yeah it's this might be torturing the
metaphor but the metaphor that had come
through before when when we were talking
about not defending was uh you know be
the lake so somebody has a sword and
they're attacking the lake and you're
like that's fine I'm a lake right um so
then thinking
about yeah go for it go for it yeah yeah
uh and I mean I think I've had that
experience too of sometimes I've been
presenting some potentially very
confronting thing to a really large team
at at a big company I mean I've
generally speaking been a consultant but
I worked in strategy so it's it's
sometimes what I find is really
confronting to how a team has been
moving and sometimes there's a lot of
yeah attack which is I see it as fear in
them yeah and those times when I have
felt like the lake it's like yeah you're
right yeah yeah that is a small in
number for me to base these findings on
it is absolutely yeah take this and do
whatever you want with it you know right
um it does land differently but so
moving that metaphor forward to being
the authority who feels supported it's
like yeah can you see yourself as like
supported in being being that lake that
is you know like there are boats and
fish you know there's all sorts of
things that are going on and moving
through that
system yeah I think it's even more than
that it's
like like the way I feel in our company
is that like everybody wants us to win
there's nobody who's working with us who
doesn't want us to
win there's nobody working for us who
doesn't want to win there's nobody
working with us who doesn't want what
we're doing in the world to
grow there's nobody working with us who
doesn't
want um me to
be in integrity and happy and
successful you know there's no like and
I want that from them and for them you
know what I mean like it's like
this it's it's like it's
very you know I mean I I know people
exist in marriages where this isn't the
case where you're not really sure that
like your husband or wife wants what's
best for you but the but if you have
that kind of marriage and it's like yeah
like the the whole a whole company can
be like that
yeah and and and the the the the trick
is that they feel seen everybody feels
seen and I don't I don't even know how
how to explain that a perfect example of
this
is you know as I was
like starting and being the leader in a
company in this like of a bigger size
and I was starting to like not feel seen
and like oh there's like a little bit of
there's the them and us and like me and
them that kind of like authority issue
thing coming up I got really frustrated
one day and Sarah was like I love your
frustration and all the
separation totally went
away it's us it's us it's we're doing
this together I have a role you have a
role but we're humans together and and
that's what you that's what happens if
you don't have an authority issue right
if you're not oh my God I did something
wrong because they're
frustrated or [__] you you don't know
what you're doing because you're
frustrated and scared it's like oh yeah
like I love your frustration Joe it's
telling us that there's something
important that we're
missing and and and it's just like
that's where the culture affected me and
and I'm sure that happened because I've
made the culture a safe place to be able
to do that but that's the
that's that's the the experience that
it's just like oh she saw me and I
notice like whenever like things are
going wrong in the company my first move
now is to make sure everybody feels
seen oh
beautiful it changes that's what you
want it's what I want and it's what
changes it's just the most effective way
to change [__] is to like help people
feel seen and feeling seen is not always
a
comfortable you know feeling seen
sometimes is uncomfortable but it's but
that's the and if everybody feels seen
then that it all kind of whatever the
politics are they go
away wow
yeah I don't know where this question is
going to go but I just want to ask that
makes me excited for
it do you think this thing about being
seen uh like how does that tie back into
Authority issues
yeah I think that that's where they all
arise
from feeling of not being seen I wasn't
seen for my goodness so [__] Authority
and I think the people who are seen for
what they offer The Authority by being a
good kid by offering value by doing the
chores or whatever those people are more
likely to grow up and try to get the
authority figures
approval and so and there's benefits to
both right like the fact that I had
Authority issues allowed me to do
experimentation which allowed me to
build something like this me having
Authority issues mean that meant that I
was like [__] Society I'm going to do
things my own way which allowed me to
experiment in weird things like esoteric
parts of Buddhism and like do you know
not work for a decade and meditate and
blah blah blah like that all came from
that [__] Authority place and there's
been a tremendous amount of benefit from
it
often
CEOs are people who had Authority issues
so they're like [__] that I'm going to
be my I don't I'm not going to have an
authority above me right that's often
the case so I'm going to do this thing
which is an interesting check I want to
go back to that I'm going to pin that
because that creates this weird dynamic
for CEOs and
then and so there's benefits to that
there's also benefits to not having that
kind like looking for that approval it's
like you get mentorship easier you can
be open to learning you like you don't
reinvent the [__] wheel like I did a
thousand times you know what I mean like
you're not in a fight have a teacher
right you you don't get kicked out of
college like I did right like there's a
whole bunch of like really beneficial
things that happen if you are have the
other side of an authority issue right
so that but it's harder because you
don't get to listen to yourself as much
so there's this
like there's no wrong way to go about it
it's just really what whichever side
you're in how do you start listening to
yourself and and the other piece that's
really true about that is that it also
really reflects how you treat your own
authority like so the voice in the head
often acts the critical voice in the
head often acts like an authority figure
and as you don't buy into it
your reflection in the world is that you
don't buy into the authority outside
either you're like oh you've got some
good things to say you've got like I
maybe I have to translate you no I'm not
going to listen to that that kind of
Freedom that you have with your own
internal authority
figure is often shows exactly how you're
going to treat authorities in your own
life yeah so just for the CEOs or the
leaders in here the the thing I pinned
that I think is really important is
I've seen a lot of times CEOs are like
yeah I don't like Authority so
they they entrepreneurs particularly not
like not somebody who's run like rose
through a bureaucracy to become a CEO
but
entrepreneurs they're like I don't want
Authority and so then they are like I
don't want to be that oppressive
Authority that my dad was and so then
they don't actually stand into their
Authority completely and then everybody
feels lost in
their in
organization if you don't come in and
say this is you don't have to say this
is what we're doing but you have to say
this is our process this is our values
this is our principles like this is how
we operate and we're not doing we can
discuss it but we're like that's my job
is to hold that and this is how we're
doing things if you don't give enough of
that to a team they won't feel
safe so and and so it's actually it's
better to say this is exactly how want
you to do something than to do the like
far which is the far side of one
Spectrum the other side of the Spectrum
which I started with because I had like
such a is
like yeah just do what you want figure
it out like you know like tell me what
you want to do like that doesn't work
either and the middle path for me has
been this is these are the principles
this is how we operate this is like this
is the structure this is the process
this these are the roles if you want to
change them I'm it's open to discussion
but this is this is how we're doing
things so that people feel safe it's not
because when there's no Authority people
start vying for that Authority role if
you don't provide it other people will V
for it and that creates utter chaos and
you see that in a room all the time if
we're facilitating something if if I do
not act like enough of an authority the
whole room feels unsafe if I act too
much like an authority the room starts
to feel unsafe it's like it is this
balance
of so it's an interesting really
interesting piece is
that like we do want someone to actually
play the
role as humans like we want someone
to to to like fulfill that position it's
a very natural position for any group of
primates to
have but it's it what's interesting to
me about it is it's not what you think
it is
meaning like if you look at baboons they
put all these tracking collars on
baboons and I love this
metaphor and every morning the baboons
would come down off the tree or whatever
and they would decide which way to
go and so they were trying to figure out
how the [__] they decided which way to
go who led them was it the alpha male
and it turned
out it was
anybody sometime the least dominant
female would lead the way and sometime
the most dominant male would lead the
way and so they would sit there and what
would happen is like some people would
start going this way and the troop
wouldn't listen and then somebody would
go this way the troop wouldn't listen
then somebody would go and what they
literally found was the person they the
the Chim uh the baboon that like did it
with the most directness because that's
what you could track they were just like
Yep this is what we're doing and they
went at a reasonable clip and they moved
with confidence then the whole troop
followed
and I and I and I and I see that that's
actually what happens in an organism
that is the nature of how humans work
now that alpha male baboon is still the
alpha male
baboon but the leadership Came As Much
from him as anybody else in
the in the
group and you see that happen all the
time like you can see
that you know a CEO wants something to
be this way but it's not that way and
they're like why isn't it that way
because the culture is is doing
something
different and to recognize that is
really it's quite lovely to when you
really see like oh like if you harness
that instead of fight it as a leader
it's a really amazing it's
magical yeah there's a wisdom greater
than any one person's in a
group yeah I I love that too I mean it
strikes me that there's something like
really interesting in there about how to
act with confidence if you yourself have
some amount of authority issues right
right yeah I mean that's the crazy piece
too right like the problem that I had in
acting like an authority like playing
the role of the authority person the
person with authority is that I was
scared I was going to get attacked well
makes sense I attacked every Authority
that I ever came
across and that was like the best thing
about that re recently we
in we're doing master class and somebody
wrote this like beautiful thing
saying like it was in the feedback for
the course did you read this thing it
great in the feedback for the course
they're like God damn it I did
everything I could to make this course
oppress
me yes and you just wouldn't [__] do
it I was
like I tried to make you the authority I
tried to get you to tell me what to do
you just wouldn't [__] do
it some person it's true that's real
it's one of the reasons that like you
became my teacher I looked I I've tried
so many different folks I and I believe
that there's a lot of people out there
who have something worth learning but
gosh if there's if something's like not
quite right
I just can't stay in the group and stay
really open but with you I can
yeah
thanks yeah
yeah yeah it's been a pleasure watching
you
move like see me more and more as human
and less and less as an authority over
the years like that's been like a great
pleasure I mean just as an example I
think in the last like six months you've
given me two compliments like that was
good work with that and that feels good
not so much because of the compliment
because I also see that as like oh you
see me as human and it's such an amazing
relief to be seen as human the the I
also understand deeply that like that's
not my job for some folks right like my
job for some folks is to be the
authority issue that they the figure
that they rebel against or to be the
person that they try to please until
they like the whole thing disintegrates
and they see me as human and and that's
fine like I understand that that's my
job is to be a mirror of something in
that way but it I can't deny it feels
really good when someone like sees me
and they're like you know they like look
behind the curtain of this veil of
teacher and they're like oh hi hi it's
like some guy you're just some guy
exactly we can just be human
together
exactly it's really quite sweet
I'm glad so it does bring me to I think
one last question I
think but it comes in two parts so it's
sort of like if you see Authority issues
coming up in your own life how do you
like what what to do what to do with
that but the two parts are if you're in
Authority versus if you have an
authority yeah well it's kind of three
parts right or maybe four there's like
the author what do you do when you have
the authority issue where you're
rebelling against the person like [__]
you I don't trust you what do you do if
you're like I'm trying to get the
authority person to approve of
me
and and then the
authority the the there's the authority
person
who the person who is the authority
who's like I don't want to be the
authority what do you do there and then
there's the person who's the authority
who's like completely lost in
the on the other side instead of I want
to be it's like everybody's here like
I'm all alone in this you know that
whole thing um and so there's kind of
four major
categories um so if you're in
the
Rebellion
uh the most important thing is just to
see them as human all all the way human
and so see the authority figure is all
the way human give them
compliments if you see them if they're
authentic apologize when you're
rebelling against them you know
um notice that you're just rebelling
against yourself that it's not really
them that you're rebelling
against um I remember when I was younger
I used to say
uh uh I'm such a rebel I I even Rebel
against telling myself what to do and uh
so it's like just owning that
apologizing for that and learning to
really get in touch with your wants so
what I noticed is that somebody who has
that kind of
authority issue there it wasn't safe to
have their own
wants that's one of the reasons that the
Rebellion to the authority happens and
so the more you can like every day write
down what are my wants how do I want to
exist in the world and be really in
touch with those and act from those then
then the Rebellion against Authority
stops because what you really are after
is getting your wants met and and
identified and
seen so that's
one um and in that taking like yeah
being your own authority being your own
authority right and having your
Authority not come from shoulds but come
from from
wants on the other side uh it's the same
thing that core principle is the same
which is like really get in touch with
your wants so if you're constantly
looking for the authority figure to say
yes you've done a great job
um you'll also notice if you're really
looking for that eventually you become
resentful of the authority figure too so
there there's usually some way in which
you because you are sacrificing some
part of yourself some part of your truth
to get approval so that resentment will
like naturally
build um so I would again apologize to
the authority figure and say oh I'm I'm
sorry I didn't you know I've had some
things that I've wanted to tell you that
I'm not telling you because I want to
you know keep our relationship safe and
that kind of thing is a good one scary
but good uh to again become your own
authority with being able to really get
in touch with your wants um the best
thing to do if you really want to
dissolve that quickly is
to say things that you think the
authority figure doesn't want to to hear
from you that you think are really
valuable and just say those start small
and then get bigger it it reminds me of
two things you know I have worked with a
lot of people who are report to a CEO or
report to maybe even a narcissistic
CEO and they'll be like I can't say this
they'll they'll get mad at me I can't
say this they'll fire me I can't you
know like and I I'm like hey yeah you
can and they're like no I said I can
prove it there's somebody in that SE
level executive who says the hard truth
to them and they're actually the closest
person to that
CEO and I'm always it's all that's
always the case that's that CEO always
has one person who they and that's the
person they trust the most because they
can say the hard thing to them they
don't do it in a way that's defensive
they're just like oh no this is you know
and and this is who their real thought
partner is and so that so learning how
to say the truth to them in an
undefended way and and not in a non-fear
way if you're scared if you say the
truth to the authority figure and you're
scared they're never going to trust
it just like you didn't trust the CEO
Who's acting out of fear in the top of
the room they're looking for the they're
looking for the uh baboon who's walking
confidently in that direction you know
what I mean there and if you're scared
of it they're not going to follow so
that's another that's if you're on that
side that's a really quick way to handle
it
if you're the CEO who Rebels against
Authority who or the leader who rebelled
against Authority and now you are the
authority and so you think that you if
you're too much of an authority
everybody's going to attack you and and
you're going to feel oppressed by it
then uh your job is to
really look for like and ask the people
in that you're leading like what's the
what's the what's what do you want what
what's the structure you want how do you
want to what is it that you don't know
where do you feel unsafe and find out
that every place that they feel unsafe
is a place where you're not actually
acting as the authority that that you're
supposed to be acting as is like is the
agreement and so
typically structurally but the best way
to move out of that is to
say um this is the process these are the
principles so you're not telling people
how to act you're not telling people how
to do the job you're telling people this
is the way that we work this is the
process that we and so people know that
process this is the way we do emails
this is the way we do meetings this is
the way that we solve problems this is
the way we make decisions but you let
everybody have their own autonomy inside
of that that usually creates a lot of
safety but you still get all the wisdom
of the group and you're not oppressing
people and so you're actually that's
like a great way to move um yeah if
you're the authority figure who feels
like you're all alone in it and you kind
of can justify like I'm so smart that
these people need to be told what to do
but I feel so alone and nobody gets me
and I have to manage everybody the best
thing to do is start asking for
help and typically what happens there is
they ask for help but in a way that
proves that they're not going to get the
help so the way to ask for the help is
to say this is what I need specifically
and these are the criteria of what would
make it actually work for
me so it's
not God damn it why can't you just
[__] like get the sales numbers
up it's not going to you know it is uh
wow I I I feel like everything I'm doing
to get the sales numbers up isn't
working and I really need your help to
get the sales numbers up and what I need
to feel confident that the sales number
is going to be up is
that you have that you're Tracking not
just how much sales we're making but how
many steps we're making incremental
steps we're making on a weekly or
bi-weekly basis so I know that the work
is getting
done and so I really need help knowing
that we're going to hit our numbers
because we're making these incremental
steps and um and I'm and how would you
feel about taking that on and and making
it so I don't have to worry about that
anymore it's a very different thing
right so often the time that the way
those people ask to get their needs met
to help to get helped will ensure that
they don't get
it has a very long answer to your
question but there's there's different
angles to it yeah it was surprisingly
long I actually expected answer like
yeah notice how vulnerable it is to be
in
Authority right okay maybe you should be
on this side because that that sums it
up do that do what she said no don't put
that on me I don't want to be the
[Laughter]
authority somebody will rebel against
you it's too late it's
over yeah great well pleasure thank you
thank you Joe see you next time yeah